Story Title: We Have Always Lived in the Castle
Story Author: Shirley Jackson


***

It was a fine April morning when I came out of the library; the sun was shining and the false glorious promises of spring were everywhere, showing oddly through the village grime. I remember that I stood on the library steps holding my books and looking for a minute at the soft hinted green in the branches against the sky and wishing, as I always did, that I could walk home across the sky instead of through the village. From the library steps I could cross the street directly and walk on the other side along to the grocery, but that meant that I must pass the general store and the men sitting in front. In this village the men piles of rusted tin and the broken automobiles and the empty gas tins and the old mattresses and plumbing fixtures and wash tubs that the Harler family brought home and -- I genuinely believe -- loved.

***

Yellow dishes, I thought, feeling the eyes of the men looking at me as I went by, and Uncle Julian shall have a nice soft egg with toast broken into it, and I will remember to ask Constance to put a shawl across his shoulders because it is still very early spring. Without looking I could see the grinning and the gesturing; I wished they were all dead and I was walking on their bodies. They rarely spoke directly to me, but only to each other. "That's one of the Blackwood girls," I heard one of them say in a high mocking voice, "one of the Blackwood girls from Blackwood Farm." "Too bad about the Blackwoods," someone else said, just loud enough, "too bad about those poor girls." "Nice farm out there," they said, "nice land to farm. Man could get rich, farming the Blackwood land. If he had a million years and three heads, and didn't care what grew, a man could get rich. Keep their land pretty well locked up, the Blackwoods do." "Man could get rich." "Too bad about the Blackwood girls." "Never can tell what'll grow on Blackwood land."

***

"Shh," the first woman said, and gestured toward the house with her head. "I heard," she said loudly, "that they had a staircase which was very fine. Carved in Italy, I heard."  "They can't hear you," the other woman said, amused. "And who cares if they do, anyway?
 "Shhh."
 "No one knows for sure if there's anyone inside or not. The local people tell some tall tales."
 "Shh. Tommy," she called to one of the children, "don't you go near those steps."
 "Why?" said the child, backing away.
 "Because the ladies live in there, and they don't like it."
 "Why?" said the child, pausing at the foot of the steps and giving a quick look backward at our front door.
 "The ladies don't like little boys," the second woman said; she was one of the bad ones; I could see her mouth
from the side and it was the mouth of a snake.
 "What would they do to me?"
 "They'd hold you down and make you eat candy full of poison; I heard that dozens of bad little boys have gone
too near that house and never been seen again. They catch little boys and they --"
 "Shh. Honestly, Ethel."
 "Do they like little girls?" The other child drew near.
 "They hate little boys and little girls. The difference is, they eat the little girls."
 "Ethel, stop. You're terrifying the children. It isn't true, darlings; she's only teasing you."
 "They never come out except at night," the bad woman said, looking evilly at the children, "and then when it's
dark they go hunting little children."
 "Just the same," the man said suddenly, "I don't want to see the kids going too near that house."

***