Story Title: Watermelon
Story Author: Marian Keyes


***

I had been lots of things in my life. I had been Claire the dutiful daughter. I had been Claire the scourge of a daughter. I had been Claire the student. I had been Claire the harlot (briefly — as I said, if we get the time, I’ll fill you  in). I  had  been  Claire  the  administrator.  I  had  been  Claire  the  wife. And now here I was being Claire the deserted wife. And the idea did notsit comfortably with me at all, I can tell you.
I had always thought (in spite of my professed liberalism) that deserted wives were women whose husbands, pausing only to blacken their eyes,left with a bottle of vodka, the Christmas Club money and the children’s allowance book, leaving them behind weeping with a huge mound of un-paid  utilities  bills,  a  spurious  story  about  walking  into  a  door  and  four dysfunctional children, all under the age of six. 
It was a humbling and enlightening experience to find out how wrong I had been. I was a deserted wife. Me, middle-class Claire. Well, it would have been a humbling and enlightening experience if Ihadn’t been feeling so bitter and angry and betrayed. What was I? Some kind of Tibetan monk? 
But I did realize, in some funny way, through the self-pity and the self-righteousness,  that  someday,  when  all  this  was  over,  I  might  be  a  nicer person as a result of it, that I would be stronger and wiser and more compassionate. But maybe not just yet. 
“Your father is a bastard,” I whispered to my child. 
The helpful gay priest jumped.
He must have heard me.

***

She watched an average of six soap operas a day and readabout four novels a
week, so she was expertly placed to give her daughters advice on their broken romances.
She was no stranger to romantic tragedy.
We sat there in the darkening room, listening to the sound of my baby breathing contentedly.
“She’s so beautiful,” Mum said.
“Yes,” I said, and started to cry quietly.
“What happened?” Mum asked.
“I don’t know,” I said. “I thought everything was fine. I thought he wasas excited about the baby as I was. I know that the pregnancy wasn’t easy. I was always sick and I got fat and we hardly ever had sex, but I thought that he understood.
”And my mother was so good. She didn’t give me any of that nonsense about men being... well... different from us, dear. They have... needs... dear,in the same way that animals do. She didn’t insult me by assuming that James left because we hadn’t had sex while I was pregnant.
“What am I going to do?” I asked her, knowing that she no more had the answer to that than I did.
“You’ve just got to live through it,” she said. “That’s all you can do. Don’t try to make sense of it, you’ll drive yourself crazy. The only person who can tell you why James left is James, and if he doesn’t want to talk to you, you can’t force him. Maybe he doesn’t understand it himself. But you can’t change the way he feels. If he says he doesn’t love you anymore and does love this other woman, you’ve got to accept it. Maybe he will come back, maybe he won’t, but either way, you’ve got to live through this.”
“But it hurts so much,” I said helplessly.
“I know it does,” she said sadly. “And if I could make it go away, you know I would.”
I looked down at my little girl, asleep, so peaceful, so innocent, so safe and happy now, and felt an unbearable anguish. I wanted her to alwaysbe happy. I wanted to hug her and hug her and never let her go. I never wanted her to feel the rejection and loneliness and shock that I was feeling now.I wanted to protect her always from pain. But I wouldn’t be able to. Life would see to that,

***

t couldn’t be easy to be surrounded by giggly excitable eighteen-year-olds like Helen and Melissa when you’re a lot more grown-up than that. And it also couldn’t be easy, I realized, to have so many young girls in love with  you.  Not  if  you  were  a  kind  person,  like  Adam  seemed  to  be,  and didn’t want to hurt or upset them. Sometimes, not that I’d know or anything, but being beautiful isn’t all fun and games. You have to use your power wisely and responsibly.
For the next ten minutes or so a steady stream of young girls came over to say good-bye to Adam. Well, that was their pretext. Melissa had obviously reported back and they were really coming to see how hideous and old Laura and I were. I have to admit, if the tables were turned, I’d be one of the first over to criticize and ridicule the shoes, clothes, makeup and hair of the offending women.
As it happened, Laura looked  beautiful, red curls, alabaster skin and nothing like her thirty years. I don’t think I looked too awful either. But I’m sure that didn’t stop anyone from saying how ancient we looked. And what did it matter?

***