Story Title: The Color Purple
Story Author: Alice Walker


***

But the children are fine. The boys now accept Olivia and Tashi in class and more mothers are sending their daughters to 
school. The men do not like it: who wants a wife who knows everything her husband knows? they fume. But the women 
have their ways, and they love their children, even their girls. 

I will write more when things start looking up. I trust God they will. 

***

Samuel gave me all of Corrine's clothes, and I need them, though none of our clothing is suitable in this climate. This is 
true even of the clothing the Africans wear. They used to wear very little, but the ladies of England introduced the Mother 
Hubbard, a long, cumbersome, ill-fitting dress, completely shapeless, that inevitably gets dragged in the fire, causing 
burns aplenty. I have never been able to bring myself to wear one of these dresses, which all seem to have been made 
with giants in mind, so I was glad to have Corrine's things. At the same time, I dreaded putting them on. I remembered 
her saying we should stop wearing each other's clothes. And the memory pained me. 

***

Sometimes I think Shug never love me. I stand looking at my naked self in the looking glass. What would she love? I ast 
myself. My hair is short and kinky because I don't straighten it anymore. Once Shug say she love it no need to. My skin 
dark. My nose just a nose. My lips just lips. My body just any woman's body going through the changes of age. Nothing 
special here for nobody to love. No honey colored curly hair, no cuteness. Nothing young and fresh. My heart must be 
young and fresh though, it feel like it blooming blood. 

I talk to myself a lot, standing in front the mirror. Celie, I say, happiness was just a trick in your case. Just cause you never 
had any before Shug, you thought it was time to have some, and that it was gon last. Even thought you had the trees with 
you. The whole earth. The stars. But look at you. When Shug left, happiness desert. 

***