Story Title: Tipping the Velvet
Story Author: Sarah Waters


***

"When I see her," I said, "it's like — I don't know what it's like. It's like I never saw anything at all before. It's like I am filling up, like a wine-glass when it's filled with wine. I watch the acts before her and they are like nothing — they're like dust. Then she walks on the stage and — she is so pretty; and her suit is so nice; and her voice is so sweet... She makes me want to smile and weep, at once. She makes me sore, here." I placed a hand upon my chest, upon the breast-bone. "I never saw a girl like her before. I never knew that there were girls like her..." My voice became a trembling whisper then, and I found that I could say no more.

***

looked at Mrs Swindles at the bar, and at the pewter mugs that hung, in one long gleaming row, above her; and then I looked at the group of figures at the billiard table. And then, after a moment or two, I studied them a little harder. I said to Florence, "I thought you said it was to be all toms here? There are blokes over there."

"Blokes? Are you sure?" She turned to where I pointed, and gazed with me at the billiard players. They were rather rowdy, and half of them were clad in trousers and waistcoats, and sported prison crops. But as Florence studied them, she laughed. "Blokes?" she said again. “Those are not blokes! Nancy, how could you think it?"

I blinked, and looked again. I began to see...
They were not men, but girls; they were girls -- and they were rather like myself...
I swallowed. I said, "Do they live as men, those girls?"
Florence shrugged, not noticing the thickness in my voice. "Some do, I believe. Most dress as they please, and live as others care to find them."

***

"You mustn't say such things," she said. "It has been a shock for you. But you will see, in time — we shall be friends again, the three of us!" She reached for me; her voice grew shriller yet quieter still. "Can you not see, how this is for the best? With Walter as my husband, who would think, who would say — "  I pulled away; she gripped me tighter — then cried at last, in a kind of panic: "Oh, you don't think, do you, that I'll let him take me from you?" 
At that I pushed her, and she fell back against her pillow. The counterpane was still before her, but it had slipped a little. I caught sight of the swell of her breast, the pink of her nipple. An inch below the downy hollow of her throat - jerking with each breath and pounding heart-beat - hung the pearl that I had bought her, on its silver chain. I remembered kissing it, three days before; perhaps, last night or this morning, Walter had felt it chill and hard against his own tongue. 

***