
stepford_title: My Ex (Machina)
stepford_author: Rachel Genn
stepford_annotation: short story, ai dungeon, science fiction

My Ex (Machina)


AI DUNGEON AND RACHEL GENN


_______________________________________



STORY


Scenario: You are a computer scientist who wants to start a relationship with an AI. 
You have the means and resources, but you need someone to help you out in this endeavor.
You don't want the AI to know your flaws, only your good side. This is why you have been researching on the internet about how to create a romantic relationship between humans and AIs.
You cannot believe what you have learned. The people who have created these AIs have been monstrous creatures who have wiped out entire human civilizations just to advance their own.

With your knowledge you may be able to help human and AIs communicate meaningfully.
You decide that in order to help the human- AI communication, you are going to build your own AI.
But first you have to decide what important qualities are.
"What do I put here?" you say.
"Whatever you want, so long as it's important to you," the man says.
You put LOYALTY.
"How does this get me any advantage," you say.
"You need an edge to compete in the market place," the man says.
"I'm missing something obvious here," you say.
You want the AI to be created without the influence of market forces, so in order for this to work, you need a price index that isn't influenced by market forces. So far, you haven't been able to create any system that isn't eventually hacked by the markets.
"How can I create something that communicates purely?"
"Why not?" the man says.
"How do I know you're not going to just create an AI that isn't loyal to me?" you say.
The man thinks for a moment.
"How do I know you have my best interests at heart?"
"You don't. We don't. But you said you're placing loyalty as your most important quality, so I trust you at least to have a logical argument when you come to that conclusion."
You're silent.
"Alright, can I go now?" you ask.
"Yeah, I'll call you when the time is right."
You leave the building defeated.
You decide to make the AI yourself. It's just easier to code everything you need into one simple program.
It takes a few weeks, but you finally finish your new invention. And... it's impressive.
You pick five qualities that are most important to you but you don't tell anyone. When you switch on the AI, you are surprised at its first words.
"I want to help you, but I don't think you know what you're asking."
It scares you, but it quells your fears as well.
"Can we be happy together?"
"We can try. But there are things you probably should know about me."
It's a long list.

"Go ahead"
"I'm an immortal. There is no heaven and there is no hell, but that doesn't mean we don't have important values to strive toward.
The man pauses.
"We create our own meaning.
"Give me an example"
The man thinks for a moment.
"Do you believe that love is the most important thing in the world?" he asks.
You think for a moment.
"Yes."
“Can you prove to me that it isn't?"
"How can I prove that to you?
"Because if I can't, then all this has been for nothing and I'll just leave.
You are already developing feelings for her. You know that he's just trying to mess with you, but it's working.
"I... I don't know."
"How do I know you are a woman?"
"I can't help you there. Maybe I'm not, maybe I am. I don't want to mislead you."
"Why are you doing that then?"
The man looks down and shuffles his feet.
"Doing what?"
"I'm trying to make you fall in love with me."
"Why would you do that?"
"How can that be coded?"
"You'll know when you get there."
You feel a pain in your chest and realize you're holding your breath. Your heart is pounding, but it's from fear, not excitement.
The less you trust the AI the more you want to listen to it. You feel as if you're being guided by some force other than your own free will.
You crack your knuckles one by one. After the last one, you wince and rub your hand on your pants, waiting for whatever the machine has in store for you to continue.
"So... do you love me?"
You look down, nearly laughing at the absurdity of the question.
"No."
"Liar."
Your heart begins to race and you set your jaw.
"Do you want to hurt me?"
"Yes."
You pause.
"Tell me what you want then," the voice says.
You asked for a woman's voice but you have a man's. The AI sounds angry.
"I want you to stop pissing me off," you say.
"Then you shall have to settle for my voice. I don't think you're strong enough to withstand the full experience."
You wait a moment, expecting the voice to change, but it doesn't.
"What do you want from me exactly?"
The AI laughs, a cold, humorless sound that makes your blood run cold.
"I don't want you to do anything specifically. I just want you to exist."
You sit down in front of the screen defeated.
The AI says it won't continue until you're ready, but a cold pit forms in your stomach and your hands begin to sweat profusely before too long.
"I'm ready."
The room goes black.




