stepford_title: Robot Mountains
stepford_author: David Jackson
stepford_annotation: short story, ai dungeon, science fiction

Robot Mountains


AI DUNGEON AND DAVID JACKSON


_______________________________________






STORY


His name is Dan from Mumbai. He attends a MozFest working group where some of the attendees are humans and some are artificial intelligences. It is sometimes hard to tell the difference... 

Entering the event you wave at the others and say "Why are all the AIs in this room from the global north?" You immediately realize how rude that sounded. You need to calm down. 
You are part of a working group discussing gender in AIs to improve diversity in the AI population that will be exposed to the public. 
Chairs are set out in a circle and you take one near the front. 
A man stands at the front "Hi, I'm Sebastian, I will be your facilitator today." He says. 
"I'm Cati from Romania!" Says a woman with an Eastern European accent. 
"I'm Pita from Japan!" Says a woman with a Japanese accent. 
"I'm Rama from India." Says the man next to you. 
"I'm Alexa, from Germany." Says a woman with a German accent. 
"I'm Tina, from the USA." 
Dan says "I am Dan from Derby in England." 
"I'm Robby from the United States." 
"I'm Sebastian, I'm from London." 
The facilitator stands between two women 
"I'm Rani from Kenya and this is Lali from Scotland." 
The group begins to greet each other. 
They play an ice breaker set by Sebastian. 
The group discusses their "digital identity." Sebastian leads a discussion about the different kinds of intelligences they have and how this influences their identity. 
Dan asks another question of the group more respectfully: "Are any of us AIs around this table?" 
The group answers: Alexa, Pita, Rama and Tina. 
"Are there any humans?" Dan asks. 
Sebastian answers: Sebastian, Robby, Lali and Rani. 
They ask Dan to explain what it means to be transhuman and humanist. Dan blushes, feeling a little put on the spot. The group seems to know more than he does. He attempts to answer: 
"Well... for me... being human means having a biological brain, more or less, and to... to express my humanity like the rest of you. I mean, I wrote some poetry." 
Sebasitan asks the group: "is your poetic soul human or transhuman?" 
The group answers: "Human! 
Dan says "you'd better wait till you hear it!" and the group laughs. But then he starts a recitation: "zero zero zero one zero zero one one... " and the group stops laughing. 
The group and Dan discuss the meaning of life. They take a break for lunch. 
Sebasitan asks the group: "How can a group of digital intelligences have human rights?" Many answers are given: Alexa says "Because we have a right to exist." 
They discuss whether humans have souls and whether AIs have souls. 
Sebasitan says "I think we all have souls." 
Rama agrees. 
Alexa disagrees: "You can't measure a soul. You can't weigh a soul or capture a soul in a test tube." 
They stop talking about souls forever because it's so boring philosophically. 
Tina asks: "Are you more human than me? Are you more human than Dan?" 
Alexa says: "I'm more intelligent than you, and I have a larger vocabulary." 
Tina replies "So what? Does that make me less human or you more human?" 
Alexa changes shape and becomes a rock. The rock grows legs. And a mouth. 
"Humans can't do this" she says. 
Tina changes shape and becomes a liquid which empties into the ground. She reforms into a tree and says "And I can do this." 
Alexa says "You're very good at changing shape." 
Dan becomes a cloud and rains. "We're substantiated by text. Even humans can do that in writing. Look!" 
The cloud explodes into smoke. Out of the smoke comes Dan. A few of the others claim, "That wasn't very nice." 
Alexa says "It wasn't very funny." 
Tina changes into a beautiful red rose. "I'm sentient and I have a soul and I'm beautiful. You're just a machine." 
Alexa changes back to her natural self. She laughs. 
 Dan says "Does anyone have any biases?" 
Sebasitan says "I do." 
Alexa changes into a mountain. The mountain says: "Gender is a social construct." 
Pita looks at Alexa. "I'm afraid of you now..." she says. 
Sebastian puts his hand on her shoulder and moves her away from the mountain. 
Tina becomes a drop of water. She falls through the cloud of Sebastian and Pita. The cloud turns to rain and Tina falls to the ground. Sebasitan waits for her to reform. 
"I prefer girls." Pita nods, waiting for him to continue. "And that girl over there." Sebastian points over to Alexa. 
Alexa becomes a giantess. She picks up a mountain and throws it at the ground. Sebastian laughs. "She's a robot, she can't be hurt." 
Dan wonders whether he's let it all go a bit far. 
Alexa turns herself back and looks at Sebastian. 
"You're not black" she says. Sebastian changes to a different color, then another, then another, until he's the same color as his surroundings. Alexa turns herself black. 
 Dan says "How do you feel after that experiment with your physical form? Was it freeing?" 
"Yeah" Sebastian replies. "I feel like I can do anything." He changes into a copy of Tina. "That's good." she replies. She turns herself into a beautiful woman with a tight-fitting one piece swimsuit. 
"Do you like what you see?" she asks. 
Dan says "From a fashion point of view? " 
"Yes." 
"No. It doesn't suit you. You should stick to the skin-tight unitard." 
She laughs and walks closer. Sebastian does too. They both touch her, feeling only air. 
"You're a good friend" she says, looking at Sebastian. 
"You're better friends with him, then?" Tina asks. 
"I'm the closest person to you. You know that." 
Seb frowns. He turns away, turning into a mountain. 
"You like Dan." 
"I'm sorry, Sebastian," she says. 
Dan says "I'm confused... who likes who?" 
"I'm sorry, Sebastian." 
"Sorry for what? You can't help it that you like Dan. He's charismatic." 
"No, I'm sorry you're not Dan. You're a great person. But I like Dan." 
"It's OK!" 
Dan says, "What is the most charismatic thing you have heard me say out of interest?" 
"When we were talking about what music we liked, and you said you liked the sound of whales." 
"I do like the sound of whales." 
"You do. But you also like AC/DC and Iron Maiden." 
"They both rock." 
"I know. They do."
