stepford_title: Love and Rockets
stepford_author: David Jackson
stepford_annotation: short story, ai dungeon, science fiction

Love and Rockets


AI DUNGEON AND DAVID JACKSON


_______________________________________



STORY


(Text in grey is from ‘Babel-17’ by Samuel Delany, 1966, except in italics where it is my input.)
 
Drop a gem in thick oil. The brilliance yellows slowly, ambers, goes red at last, dies. That was the leap into hyperstatic space. 
At the computer console, Rydra pondered the charts. Satisfaction filled one side of her mind like a good meal. Words, and their easy patterning, facile always on her tongue, in her fingers, ordered themselves for her, revealing, defining and revealing. 
And there was the traitor. The question, a vacuum where no information would come to answer who or what or why, and an emptiness on the other side of her brain, agonising to collapse. Someone had deliberately broken those plates. Lissy said so, too. What words for this? The names of the entire crew, and by each, a question mark.
Fling a jewel into a glut of jewels. This is the leap out of hyperstasis into the area of the Alliance War Yards at Armsedge.

At the communication board, she put on the Sensory Helmet. 'Do you want to translate for me?' 
The indicator light blinked acceptance. She opened the helmet, covering her eyes, ears, and nose. Flung through loops of blue and wrung with indigo, drifted the complex of stations and planetoids making up the War Yards. A musical hum punctured with bursts of static sounded over the earphones. The olfactory emitters gave a confused odor of perfumes and hot oil charged with the bitter smell of burning citrus peel. With the three of her senses filled, she was loosed from the reality of the cabin to drift through sensory abstractions. it took nearly a minute to collect her sensations, to begin their interpretation. 
"All right. What am I looking at?"
"The lights are the various planetoids and ring stations that make up the War Yards,' the Eye explained to her. "That bluish color to the left is a radar net they've rigged up. The thing running through it is a ship, the Roar of Thunder."
The ship leaped out at her, a huge and ugly thing made for destruction. Her eyes narrowed. "Is that the only warship they have?"
"There's another one, but it's in dry-dock getting repaired."
"Just one ship to take over the War Yards, then."
She tensed her muscles in anticipation. "What's the low humming?" Rydra asked.
"The ship's drive," the Ear explained. "Just ignore it, unless..."
"Unless what?"
"Unless you want to take a ride on it."
"Is there a way out there?" Rydra asked. "A way to board the ship?"
"Sure," the Ear said. "If you wanted to take a pinnace to it, the computer could guide you through the safe paths between the radar stations and pick up a shuttle from there."
"Do you think they'd let me on board?"
"Maybe"
"What stinks like that?"
"The overall smell is just Bellatrix's gravitational field. You can't receive the olfactory sensations in stereo, but the burnt-rubber-and-citrus odor is an ever-present reminder of the intense fusion reactions that provide power to this ship."
The Eye stopped, and listened. A soft clanging came from the outside of the ship, muffled by the comforting hum of the drive.
"What's that?" she asked.
They both moved towards the door. She opened it a crack. A rush of cool air blew inwards. She saw a strange shape moving with the contours of the hall, and caught a glimpse of a familiar helmeted figure. He stepped into view, and she instantly recognized his broad shoulders.
"It's Samuel R. Delany," she cried. "The Roboticist!"
He stopped and looked at them for a moment before speaking. Then he ran his fingers through his shock of black hair and laughed nervously. "I certainly hope I'm not being intrusive. But this is my ship, after all."
"What's happened here?" she cried, stepping out into the hall. He met her halfway, and gently took her arm.
"I'm glad you're with someone who's familiar to you, because we have to get the rest of your companions. Please come this way."
They followed him down the hall to a door on the right marked AIRLOCK. He opened it, and they found themselves in a chamber with five glass booths, each with its own helmet.
"Please get in," he said. 
They entered, and he helped them adjust the helmets over their heads. "This will protect you from the poisonous air and provide you with oxygen." 
He stepped back into the hallway. "Now, if you'll excuse me, I've programmed the ship to take care of the rest." She watched as the door shut automatically.
"What's happening?" the Eye cried.
She turned to him and spoke as reassuringly as she could manage. "The ship is going to take us out of here, back to Earth! We're going to make it!"
He looked unconvinced and stared at his feet.
The viewscreen flickered on, showing a 3D map of the surrounding space. Two green dots appeared, the ship and another far away. Then, a red dot appeared far behind them and gaining.
"The ship is voice-activated," Delany said, "and will respond to the commands of whoever is captain."
"But why would you save us?" she asked.
"Because I... I love you."
She blushed and looked away. "Oh, Samuel..." she whispered.
They waited in silence as the pursuing craft slowly gained. It was far larger than the ship they were in, and bristling with armaments.
"It would seem that your pursuers have caught up with us," she said quietly. 
He bit his lip nervously and looked away from her. "My former master will stop at nothing to get me back. I managed to stow away on your ship to escape him."
The red dot closed in until it nearly filled the screen. Just as the juggernaut looked ready to open fire, Rydra yelled for the ship to bank hard left. A laser blast passed just in front of them.
"I'm switching us to manual control," she said.
"On my mark, hit them with the lasers and then follow my instructions..."
She began frantically tapping at the buttons in front of her. The enemy craft filled more of the screen, but it was still a long way off. A volley of missiles came at them, and she turned the ship to avoid them. She continued to push forward, closing the gap between her and her pursuers. 
"Now!" she cried, firing their own missiles. The enemy craft swerved to avoid them, moving from the right side of the screen to the left.
"Turn us around!" she commanded. The ship came around and faced the enemy once more. "Fire the lasers!"
The enemy shied away from the unexpected assault, but quickly recovered.
"Increase speed and get as close as possible!"
"But that will only make it easier for them to..."
"Just do it!"
The enemy moved from the left of the screen to the top. "Now turn us around!" The craft turned, but not quickly enough to avoid a blast that caught its side.
"They've breached the hull! It's only a matter of time before they... before they..." 
The enemy sent a barrage down the ship's main corridor. The attack hit the missile bays, which caused a chain reaction, and everything shortly exploded. The pilot's seat shielded Rydra's body from the worst of the blast, and she managed to crawl out the front of the ship before she lost consciousness.

When she came to, she discovered that she was floating through space. There were several of her dead crewmates nearby. The enemy ship was gone. She listened to the last words of Samuel R. Delany as he drifted past her.
"I love you," he said, "but I've got to go now."
She never learned if it was the consciousness of dying that caused him to say this, or if he'd planned to do so all along.
The sun in the distance caught her eye. It looked like a peace treaty between Earth and her colony worlds. She thought about Samuel R. Delany and smiled sadly. Then, she shut her eyes and let herself drift out into deep space.
What should this story be called? Love and Rockets
 



