stepford_title: The Tambopato River
stepford_author: Emma Nuttall
stepford_annotation: short story, ai dungeon, horror


The Tambopato River


AI DUNGEON AND EMMA NUTTALL


STORY

Down the Tambopato River, a thousand noises crash through the canopy. Insects click and thrum, the scarlet macaw screams to the howler monkeys and the humidity in the air lodges in your throat like stuck rice. 

Setting: The Tambopato tribe has been decimated to a remnant tribe by the decimation plague.

> You say "I am a healer. Show me to your village."
You find the remnants of the old tribe, lying in wait. Many are wounded, many more are dead.
After a few minutes, you see the village.
Under no circumstances can you admit to your  sadness at this contamination, though the fierceness can be seen in the compression of your lips. Your nostrils quiver, but you do not show this anger, only the concern of a healer. The warriors stand up to greet the arrival of this helper through the great plague. The unmistakable pressure of watchful eyes settles across your back and you ask to be shown your lodgings. You are warmly received, and taken to your hut. You are given supplies for the journey, including some food.

> You say "Thank you for the food. I will set off into the jungle and find some herbs soon."
You sit down on the bed in your hut, and take the package of tropical fruit that was given to you.
The fruit is delicious, and you quickly finish it off. You then go out to search for herbs. > You walk out amongst the giant rust-red cedars. Dewdrops powder the branches, outgrown roots, wildflowers and fallen leaves crunch beneath your heavy boots. You relax in the wilderness. You can smell the strange plants from here, and know where to look to find them. You venture further into the forest, the vegetation becomes more voluptuous, the air heavy and perfumed. A strange green light shimmers through the vast layers of leaves. Several species of new beetles jostle one another in the spindly branches of the trees. You come to a small, clear stream, slowing your steps.
Then suddenly, squeaks and shrills and rustling and rasping, and crashing sounds of water comes from all directions, louder, and then, a low guttural growling. The stream, the undergrowth, the ground, the trees are all teeming with life. A powerful roar fills the space, vibrating through your own chest. A string of curses unravel, like yarn unfurling, as the creature emerges. Golden scales shimmer with hot anger along with its dark, cold eyes. It stands, and you see a creature like a dragon, taller than a horse, with a long ridge running down its back, like a spine. Next to the monster, stands a woman. In her arms she carries a bundle, with long, delicate fingers, and her face is stern.

> You say "Aren't you afraid of the monster?"
The woman looks at you, and frowns.
"No," she says simply.
> You say "Then it obeys your command?"
The woman nods, and gently places the bundle on the ground.
The creature lowers itself to all fours, snarling with anger, and steps forward.
With one powerful bound, it leaps upon the woman.

