stepford_title: The Solace of the Outstretched Hand
stepford_author: Nicole Wheeler
stepford_annotation: short story, ai dungeon, literary

The Solace of the Outstretched Hand


AI DUNGEON AND NICOLE WHEELER


_______________________________________


STORY

Prompt: https://davidwhyte.stores.yahoo.net/beandbl.html 

The plowman shuffles down the lane, bent under a load of bundles of sticks for his hearth, and you exchange the time of day. You have no more to say than that, but when you turn back to your task again you are suddenly aware of how solitary your life has always been.

Why should this be? The plowman has his wife and children, his beasts to care for, his neighbors, his local sports, and his drinking buddies. It is you who must be lonely. But how do you know? By what standard? Everyone you have ever met lives such a life; surely that means that it is human and therefore normal? And yet the very fact that you can ask the question proves that there is something different about you. You cannot be the only person who has ever felt this way. Where are they all?
You have no idea. Cut off, perhaps; isolated from one another, with no idea that others feel as they do. Perhaps some deliberately keep to themselves, afraid of the consequences if anyone were to find out the truth about them. But you are not like that. You want nothing more than to find someone else who is like you, and yet the odds of that must be slim indeed.
If only there were some way of making yourself known to others of your kind; some sign or signal that would cause them to seek you out. But what could it be? What do you have that a fellow insomaniac might recognize?
And then you have an idea. It is a little thing, but if it helps just one person to find you then it will be worth it.

You head out first thing the next morning.
The hospital is on the edge of town, a sprawling graystone building that stands alone behind a wall six feet high. Its grounds are tangled with weeds and edged with mossy bricks, and the graystone is blotched black and green with lichen and mold. The windows are narrow and high, set deep into dark wooden frames. They stare out like blank black eyes, seeming to follow you wherever you walk.
You have only been here once before, to visit your aunt, and you don't like it. There is something cold and inhuman about the place that makes the hairs on the back of your neck stand up. Maybe it's just the stark structure itself; or maybe it's what the structure contains: endless rooms filled with the dying and the dead, corpses waiting to become corpses, life slowly wasting away.
It is too much for you to take in at once.

You enter through the front door.
The entrance is a gloomy archway of solid gray stone. It looks like the mouth of a huge, dark tunnel that leads deeper into the building. You can feel the weight of the roof bearing down overhead, and you have to fight back an urge to turn and run, just get out of this horrible place as fast as your feet will carry you.
Unlike the rest of the building, the entrance hall is quite sunny.

You walk through it.
As you step under the archway the ceiling opens up above you, and you are struck by the feeling that the whole place is a giant mouth. The floor, walls, and ceiling are all formed of hard, sculpted stone, molded into jagged patterns that look almost like teeth.
The entrance hall continues far back to either side, lined with wooden doors that match the frames.

You walk to the door at the end of the hall.
As you walk down the hall you pass several doors, all closed. The walls are solid stone on either side, and the roof is just out of reach overhead. The floor is cold and rough under your feet, perfectly flat but slightly uneven in a way that you can't quite put your finger on.
The feeling of oppression and constriction grows stronger as you go further in, and by the time you reach the end of the corridor you feel like you can hardly breathe. You reach the door at the end and push it open.
Beyond the door is a large, high-ceilinged room with a row of tall, narrow stained-glass windows marching in a line along the far wall. The glass in these windows is arranged in strange, angular patterns that seem almost incomplete, like the frames around them have been bent out of shape to allow the placement of irregularly shaped pieces of stained glass.
The walls of the room are bare stone, illuminated by the cold, pale light of the winter afternoon. They look like they might have been painted at one time, but the paint has faded and cracked, peeling in large flakes that now litter the floor.
The floor is made of dark wood, now rotting and splitting under the dampness that has seeped up from the stone floors beneath it. There are nine rows of desks, one row for every student in the class, each desk with a seat on either side, all the seats on the same side facing the same way.
The room feels oppressive and confined, like the walls are too close together. You can feel an unseen pressure on your skin, threatening to crush you.
You take another step into the room, and then you see them.
Nine bodies, hanging from the ceiling.
Their skin is so pale it seems to be giving off a white glow of its own in the dim, grey light. Their eyes are all open but not seeing, the skin around their eyes and their lips pulled back in grimaces of pain and horror.
The bodies are bloated and heavy with decay, the clothes they wear torn and muddy. You can see deep, dark bruises that cover their arms and legs.
Their necks are broken, twisted around at unnatural angles.
You cover your mouth to stop yourself from throwing up.
The light in the room grows brighter and whiter, burning your eyes.
When you open them again, you find that you are no longer in the classroom. You are standing in a grey expanse of nothingness, featureless and seamless. There is no ground or sky or horizon here, just an endless plane of nothing.
You are not alone.
There is a man here, sitting on a broken chair in the middle of nowhere. You can see his face, white and gaunt and sunken, skin stretched tightly over the bones. His cheeks are skeletal, his lips chapped and cracked, his eyes dark and deep-set under dark eyebrows. He looks at you as you enter, and he does not move. He wears a dusty black suit, stained with what looks like old blood around the collar.

You call out to him.
"Hello," you say.
He looks at you, but he does not speak.
"I'm sorry to intrud--" you say, before the man on the chair interrupts you.
"I know who you are." His voice is cracked and dry, the sound of leaves being crushed underfoot, like autumn wind through the trees. "You're not supposed to be here."

