Story Title: Casino Royale
Story Author: Ian Fleming


***


Mathis interrupted. ‘Calm yourself, my dear James. She is as serious as
you could wish and as cold as an icicle. She speaks French like a native
and knows her job backwards. Her cover’s perfect and I have arranged for
her to team up with you quite smoothly. What is more natural than that
you should pick up a pretty girl here? As a Jamaican millionaire,’ he
coughed respectfully, ‘what with your hot blood and all, you would look
naked without one.’

Bond grunted dubiously.

‘Any other surprises?’ he asked suspiciously.

‘Nothing very much,’ answered Mathis. ‘Le Chiffre is installed in his
villa. It’s about ten miles down the coast road. He has his two guards
with him. They look pretty capable fellows. One of them has been seen
visiting a little “pension” in the town where three mysterious and
rather subhuman characters checked in two days ago. They may be part of
the team. Their papers are in order—stateless Czechs apparently—but
one of our men says the language they talk in their room is Bulgarian.
We don’t see many of those around. They’re mostly used against the Turks
and the Yugoslavs. They’re stupid, but obedient. The Russians use them
for simple killings or as fall-guys for more complicated ones.’

***

Mathis and Bond exchanged cheerful talk about the fine weather and the
prospects of a revival in the fortunes of Royale-les-Eaux. The girl sat
silent. She accepted one of Bond’s cigarettes, examined it and then
smoked it appreciatively and without affectation, drawing the smoke
deeply into her lungs with a little sigh and then exhaling it casually
through her lips and nostrils. Her movements were economical and precise
with no trace of self-consciousness.

Bond felt her presence strongly. While he and Mathis talked, he turned
from time to time towards her, politely including her in the
conversation, but adding up the impressions recorded by each glance.

Her hair was very black and she wore it cut square and low on the nape
of the neck, framing her face to below the clear and beautiful line of
her jaw. Although it was heavy and moved with the movements of her head,
she did not constantly pat it back into place, but let it alone. Her
eyes were wide apart and deep blue and they gazed candidly back at Bond
with a touch of ironical disinterest which, to his annoyance, he found
he would like to shatter, roughly. Her skin was lightly sun-tanned and
bore no trace of make-up except on her mouth which was wide and sensual.
Her bare arms and hands had a quality of repose and the general
impression of restraint in her appearance and movements was carried even
to her fingernails which were unpainted and cut short. Round her neck
she wore a plain gold chain of wide flat links and on the fourth finger
of the right hand a broad topaz ring. Her medium-length dress was of
grey _soie sauvage_ with a square-cut bodice, lasciviously tight across
her fine breasts. The skirt was closely pleated and flowered down from a
narrow, but not a thin, waist. She wore a three-inch, handstitched black
belt. A handstitched black _sabretache_ rested on the chair beside her,
together with a wide cart-wheel hat of gold straw, its crown encircled
by a thin black velvet ribbon which tied at the back in a short bow. Her
shoes were square-toed of plain black leather.

Bond was excited by her beauty and intrigued by her composure. The
prospect of working with her stimulated him. At the same time he felt a
vague disquiet. On an impulse he touched wood.

Mathis had noticed Bond’s preoccupation. After a time he rose.


***


As he drove, whipping the car faster and faster through the night, with
the other half of his mind he cursed Vesper, and M for having sent her
on the job.

This was just what he had been afraid of. These blithering women who
thought they could do a man’s work. Why the hell couldn’t they stay at
home and mind their pots and pans and stick to their frocks and gossip
and leave men’s work to the men. And now for this to happen to him, just
when the job had come off so beautifully. For Vesper to fall for an old
trick like that and get herself snatched and probably held to ransom
like some bloody heroine in a strip cartoon. The silly bitch.

Bond boiled at the thought of the fix he was in.

***