Story Title: Pride and Prejudice
Story Author: Jane Austen


***

Lady Catherine seemed resigned. “Mrs. Collins, you must send a
servant with them. You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot
bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
It is highly improper. You must contrive to send somebody. I have
the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing. Young
women should always be properly guarded and attended, according
to their situation in life. When my niece Georgiana went to
Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of her having two
men-servants go with her. Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr. Darcy,
of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with
propriety in a different manner. I am excessively attentive to
all those things. You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs.
Collins. I am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would
really be discreditable to you to let them go alone.”

***

“You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said
Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.

“Oh! she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there
is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very
pretty, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner
to introduce you.”

“Which do you mean?” and turning round, he looked for a moment at
Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly
said, “She is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt me; and I
am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies
who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your
partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with
me.”

***

As no objection was made to the young people’s engagement with
their aunt, and all Mr. Collins’s scruples of leaving Mr. and
Mrs. Bennet for a single evening during his visit were most
steadily resisted, the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at
a suitable hour to Meryton; and the girls had the pleasure of
hearing, as they entered the drawing-room, that Mr. Wickham had
accepted their uncle’s invitation, and was then in the house.


***